if your life for a book and you were the
author how would you want your story to
go that's the question that changed my
life forever growing up in the hot Las
Vegas desert all I wanted was to be free
I would daydream about traveling the
world living in a place where it snowed
and I would picture all of the stories
that I would go on to tell at the age of
19 the day after I graduated high school
I moved to a place where it snowed and I
became a massage therapist with this job
all I needed were my hands and my
massage table by my side and I could go
anywhere for the first time in my life I
felt free independent and completely in
control of my life that is until my life
took a detour I went home from work
early one day with what I thought was
the flu and less than 24 hours later I
was in the hospital on life support with
less than a 2% chance of living
it wasn't until days later as I lay in a
coma that the doctors diagnosed me with
bacterial meningitis a vaccine
preventible blood infection over the
course of two and a half months I lost
my spleen
my kidneys the hearing in my left ear
and both of my legs below the knee when
my parents wheeled me out of the
hospital I felt like I had been pieced
back together like a patchwork doll I
thought the worst was over
and tell weeks later when I saw my new
legs for the first time the calves were
bulky blocks of metal with pipes bolted
together for the ankles and a yellow
rubber foot with the raised rubber line
from the toe to the ankle to look like a
vein I didn't know what to expect but I
wasn't expecting that with my mom by my
side and tears streaming down our faces
I strapped on these chunky legs and I
stood up they were so painful and so
confining that all I could think was how
am I ever going to travel the world in
these things how was I ever going to
live the life full of adventure and
stories as I always wanted and how was I
going to snowboard again that day I went
home I crawled into bed and this is what
my life looks like for the next few
months me passed out escaping from
reality
with my legs resting by my side I was
absolutely physically and emotionally
broken but I knew that in order to move
forward I had to let go of the old Amy
and learn to embrace the new Amy and
that is when it dawned on me that I
didn't have to be 5 foot 5 anymore I can
be as tall as I wanted
or as short as I wanted depending on who
I was dating
and if I snowboard again my feet aren't
going to get cold and best of all I
thought I can make my feet the size of
all the shoes that are on the sales rack
and I did so there were benefits here it
was this moment that I asked myself that
life defining question if my life were a
book and I were the author how would I
want this story to go and I began to
daydream I daydreamed like I did as a
little girl and I imagine myself walking
gracefully helping other people through
my journey and snowboarding again and I
didn't just see myself carving down a
mountain of powder I could actually feel
it I could feel the wind against my face
and the beat of my racing heart as if it
were happening in that very moment and
that is when a new chapter in my life
began four months later I was back up on
a snowboard although things going to go
quite as expected my knees and my ankles
when it bend and at one point I
traumatized all the skiers on the
chairlift when I I fell and my legs
still attached to my snowboard
with flying down the mountains and I was
on top of the mountain still I was so
shocked I was just as shocked as
everybody else and I was so discouraged
but I knew that if I could find the
right pair of feet that I would be able
to do this again and this is when I
learned that our borders and our
obstacles can only do two things one
stop us in our tracks or to force us to
get creative I did a year research still
couldn't figure out what kind of legs to
use couldn't find any resources that
could help me so I decided to make a
pair myself my leg maker and I put
random parts together and we made a pair
of feet that I could snowboard in as you
can see rusted bolts rubber wood and
neon pink duct tape and yes I can change
my toenail polish it was these legs and
the best 21st birthday gift I could ever
receive a new kidney from my dad that
allowed me to follow my dreams again I
started snowboarding then I went back to
work then I went back to school then in
2005 I co-founded a nonprofit
organization for youth and young adults
with physical disabilities so they could
get involved with action sports from
there I had the opportunity to go to
South Africa where I helped to put shoes
on thousands of children's feet so they
could attend school and just this past
February I won two back-to-back World
Cup gold medals
which made me the highest-ranked
adaptive female snowboarder in the world
11 years ago when I lost my legs I had
no idea what to expect but if you asked
me today if I would ever want to change
my situation I would have to say no
because my legs haven't disabled me if
anything they've enabled me they forced
me to rely on my imagination and to
believe in the possibilities and that's
why I believe that our imaginations can
be used as tools for breaking through
borders because in our minds we can do
anything and we can be anything it's
believing in those dreams and facing our
fears head-on that allows us to live our
lives beyond our limits and although
today is about innovation Without
Borders I have to say that in my life
innovation has only been possible
because of my borders I've learned that
borders are where the actual ends but
also where the imagination and the story
begins so they thought that I would like
to challenge you with today is that
maybe instead of looking at our
challenges and our limitations as
something negative or bad we can begin
to look at them as blessings magnificent
gifts that can be used to ignite our
imaginations and help us go further than
we ever knew we could go it's not about
breaking down borders it's about pushing
off of them and seeing what amazing
places they might bring us thank you
you